# gmitxt - Gemini Text Conversion Library and CLI Tool

gmitxt is a library and command-line interface (CLI) tool for parsing and converting Gemini text into other formats, such as HTML.

Gemini is both a network protocol and a text format.  You can read more about it here:

=> https://gemini.circumlunar.space/  Project Gemini (via HTTPS)
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/  Project Gemini (via Gemini)
=> docs/specification.gmi Copy of the Gemini specification

## Work in Progress

This is currently a work in progress.  While this project is well tested, it is still open for feedback and there may be breaking changes while the project's major version is 0.

If you depend on this project, please read the CHANGELOG.gmi before upgrading.

=> CHANGELOG.gmi

## Features

* Memory allocation is minimized wherever possible.
* Scanner parses Gemini text line-by-line to reduce memory allocation.
* Zero external dependencies.  Only depend on the Go standard library.
* 100% Test coverage.

### Planned Features

* Convert to Gemini text to HTML.
* Output to Gemini text.
* Command line tool to convert text.
* Parse gemlog format.
* Output gemlog to an atom feed.
* Build a table of contents structure from Gemini text.
* Apply your own templates for standalone HTML output.

## Installing the Command-Line Tool

TODO - There is no CLI tool yet.

### Command-Line Usage

TODO - There is no CLI tool yet.

## Library Usage

You can add this library to your Go project with the following:

```sh
go get https://git.sr.ht/~kiba/gmitxt
```

You can use godoc to view the library documentation:

```sh
godoc -http=localhost:6060
```

Then point your browser to localhost:6060 to view the documentation:

=> http://localhost:6060

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome.  Please read the guide found in CONTRIBUTING.gmi.

=> CONTRIBUTING.gmi Contributing guide

## License

This project is licensed by the MIT License.  See the LICENSE file for details.

=> LICENSE
